Unit 1	What do you miss most?

Immigrants to the United States from four continents talk about 
their lives.

Reporter: 	Hello. My name is Nancy Kim and I'm from Korea, 
		but now I live in the United States. Today there
		are almost two million Koreans living in the 
		U.S. and Canada. In fact, there are a lot of
		immigrants from all over the world here. More
		than twenty million people living in the United
		States and Canada were born in a foreign 
		country. Today we're going to meet a few of 
		them. Let's start with Shiru Katagiri. Shiru, 
		where are you from originally?

Shiru: 		I was born in Japan.

Reporter: 	Why did you move here?

Shiru: 		Well, I had . . . um . . . [a] long desire to
		come to America from the time that I was very
		little, because I had a great-uncle [that] lived
		in Chicago. He used to send us a gift at 
		Christmastime and Easter, including Life and
		Look magazines and chocolate.

Reporter: 	How long have you been here in the United
		States?

Shiru: 		It was 1966, the first time I came to Chicago.

Reporter: 	How old were you when you came?

Shiru: 		Twenty-six.

Reporter: 	Did you have a job in Japan?

Shiru: 		Yes. I had a job at the bank, which is, which
		[was] considered to be very guaranteed lifetime
		employment.

Reporter: 	What do you do now?

Shiru: 		I started my own company in 1980. Since then,
		I have my own business.

Reporter: 	What do you miss most about Japan?

Shiru: 		People, friends, and good food, and I guess
		mountains . . . big mountains.

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	What's your name?

Carmen: 	My name is Carmen Zarelda Guzman.

Reporter: 	Where are you originally from?

Carmen: 	Originally, I'm from Panama City, Panama. And I
		lived there for about thirteen years before I
		came to the United States.

Reporter: 	Why did you come to the United States?

Carmen: 	I had a sister that lived here, and she had a
		family. And she wanted to bring us here, mainly
		for an opportunity.

Reporter: 	How old were you when you came?

Carmen: 	I was thirteen years old.

Reporter: 	What do you remember most about Panama?

Carmen: 	Christmas. I guess because I was a child when I
		left Panama, and Christmas, for me, it was a
		special time because as our family, we did not
		have a lot of money for my mom to buy presents
		for us.

Reporter: 	Did you learn something special in Panama?

Carmen: 	My mom was a type of woman that wanted her
		children to learn a skill, and she put me into
		dancing. Every day we went to classes. My mom 
		was always there.

Reporter: 	Do you still dance?

Carmen: 	Yes, I still dance. I'm in a group of about ten
		people. They are all from Panama. And we get
		together and we practice because we dance every
		year at the Festival of Nations.

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Adan Casas is also from a Spanish-speaking
		country. Let's meet with him. Adan, where were
		you born?

Adan: 		I was born in Mexico in the state of Morelos;
		the city is Cuernavaca.

Reporter: 	How long have you been here?

Adan: 		I have been here since 1982.

Reporter: 	So what do you remember about Mexico?

Adan: 		Well, I remember I used to go to the evening
		classes. And it was kind of fun since I lived in
		a rural area. And we used to gather in groups
		with the students and play soccer.

Reporter: 	What do you like to do now?

Adan: 		I like to watch television, read, and play
		soccer.

Reporter: 	Do you play soccer for a team?

Adan: 		Yes, I do. We played soccer this past winter, 
		and we won first place.

Reporter: 	What do you miss most about Mexico?

Adan: 		Well, I miss going to the rivers, to the hills
		. . . and the food.

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Next, we're going to meet with Rocky Ralebipi,
		who is originally from Africa. Rocky, where 
		were you born?

Rocky: 		I was born in South Africa, in a place called
		Mawilla Rain.

Reporter: 	What language did you speak?

Rocky: 		Actually, I am Zulu. But because we lived in a
		Sutu-speaking area and I went to a Sutu-speaking
		school, I spoke Sutu and my family spoke Sutu.

Reporter: 	Why did you move here?

Rocky: 		I came here as a Fulbright scholar. And when I
		applied for the Fulbright scholarship, I really
		did not care which country I was going to. I
		just wanted to get out of South Africa at the
		time and I wanted to see the world, so I
		applied to universities in Britain and in the
		United States.

Reporter: 	Did you have a job in South Africa?

Rocky: 		My first real job, my first professional job, 
		was after I graduated from college. I went to
		library school and I graduated from library
		school, so I was a librarian for the first 
		year. And the second year, I also taught in the
		library school. So that was the beginning of my
		career.

Reporter: 	What do you remember about South Africa?

Rocky: 		The first thing that comes to mind is my family.
		I remember my cousins visiting. I remember the
		Christmases. I remember the dolls that we used 
		to make. I remember all of my dolls were 
		homemade, so I remember the process of, you 
		know, creating that little nation.

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Our final guest is from Europe. What is your
		name?

Cecilia: 	My name is Cecilia Rosenberg.

Reporter: 	And where are you from?

Cecilia: 	I come from Sweden. I was born in Stockholm, the
		capital of Sweden.

Reporter: 	What did you use to do in Sweden?

Cecilia:	I liked horses very much. So I used to ride, and
		I used to pretend I was a cowboy and bring the
		cows in . . . and work in the stable and with 
		the cows, milking them.

Reporter: 	What do you miss most about Stockholm?

Cecilia: 	This may be looking back, but everything is
		within walking distance. And it's beautiful. 
		It's water everywhere. It's nature. Parks 
		everywhere. It's beautiful architecture.

Reporter: 	When did you move here?

Cecilia: 	That was 1978.

Reporter: 	How many people came with you to the United
		States?

Cecilia: 	Only my husband and our two children.

Reporter: 	And how does your family like it here?

Cecilia: 	My children like it very much. They feel it's
		home to them. My husband always feels he's left
		something very important behind . . . 
		traditions.
		
		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Maybe you're wondering about me. What I remember
		most about Korea was the wonderful food. My
		favorite was a kind of spicy, barbecued beef
		called bulgogi. Lucky for me, I can enjoy Korean
		food right here in the United States. This is
		Nancy Kim reporting. Mmm . . . I can almost 
		taste that bulgogi now!


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005