Unit 7	Great inventions

People talk about and demonstrate their inventions at an
inventors' congress in Florida.

Yolanda: 	What on earth is that? That's a question you'll 
		be asking a lot in the next few minutes. Hi. 
		I'm Yolanda Fernandez. I'm at the National 
		Inventors' Congress in Fort Myers, Florida. 
		Every year inventors from all over North America
		come here to display the marvelous gadgets
		they've created. Let's talk to some of the
		exhibitors now and find out what their
		inventions do. This looks interesting. Can you
		show me how this works?

Exhibitor 1:	This is Chow Baby. It's used to feed your pets 
		when you're away from home. You simply set the
		time, the amount of food, and it does everything
		automatically.

Yolanda: 	It looks great. Thank you very much.

Exhibitor 1:	Thank you.

		*	*	*

Yolanda: 	What is this for? Is this a pen?

Exhibitor 2:	No. This is a shaver. You open it up, turn it 
		around. You push the button, and the soap comes
		out. You put it on your face, shave. Once you're
		finished, close it, push it back in, and put it
		back in your pocket.

Yolanda: 	Shaving on the go.

Exhibitor 2:	Shaving on the go.

Yolanda: 	What a great idea!

Exhibitor 2:	Thank you.

Yolanda: 	Thank you very much.

Exhibitor 2:	You're welcome.

		*	*	*

Yolanda: 	You have real live ants in there. Now, what is 
		this used for?

Exhibitor 3:	Well, how it works is we keep the ants and small
		crawling insects from reaching your pet's food.
		You can see we have a lot of hungry ants in
		here, but they can't get to the food on top of
		the dish.

Yolanda: 	So they can't get inside?

Exhibitor 3:	No, they cannot get into the pet's food.

Yolanda: 	Do you have other colors, too?

Exhibitor 3:	Yes, it comes in a variety of colors and glow-
		in-the-dark colors so you can see it in the 
		kitchen at night in the dark or way out in the 
		yard.

Yolanda: 	Great. Looks like a very effective invention.

Exhibitor 3: 	Well, thank you very much.

Yolanda:	Thank you.

		*	*	*

Yolanda: 	This looks like a fun invention. What do you
		call this?

Exhibitor 4:	Thank you. This is our golf buggy. It's designed
		to put some exercise back into the sport of
		golf. Instead of riding in an electric cart
		where there's very little exercise, you can
		pedal on the golf course. You just put your
		clubs on the back and go down the fairway.

Yolanda: 	How about the steering?

Exhibitor 4:	Very easy to steer. The steering is on both
		sides. You can even steer it with one hand if
		you wish. It's a very comfortable position to
		sit in. It has many health benefits.

Yolanda: 	Great. Do you want to show me how it works?

Exhibitor 4:	I'd be glad to.

Yolanda: 	OK.

		*	*	*

Yolanda: 	And what are you making today?

Exhibitor 5:	I'm making an orange-milk product from natural
		orange concentrate that we mix with milk instead
		of water. From that - mixing three to one - we
		make an orange milk shake or a frozen dessert.
		For a drink, it's mixed four parts of milk to
		one part concentrate.

Yolanda:	And who would buy this product?

Exhibitor 5:	The schools, the hospitals, or anyplace that 
		they're interested in better nutrition.

Yolanda:	OK. It looks delicious. Mmm . . . this is 
		really good. Well, it looks like inventions 
		can be delicious, too. In Fort Myers, Florida, 
		at the National Inventors' Congress, I'm Yolanda
		Fernandez.


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005