Unit 8	Thanksgiving

People describe what they eat at Thanksgiving dinner.

Polani: 	Hi. My name is Polani Pozzani. It's the fourth 
		Thursday in November, Thanksgiving Day in the
		United States. Many Americans celebrate this
		holiday with family dinners such as this one.
		Let's take a look and see where this tradition
		came from.

		In the year 1620, some Europeans came to North
		America and settled in what is now 
		Massachusetts. They were called the Pilgrims. 
		The Pilgrims didn't know how to grow crops in 
		the New World, so the Native Americans helped 
		them. They taught the Pilgrims how to grow corn 
		and squash, or pumpkin, how to gather 
		cranberries, and how to hunt wild turkeys. The 
		Pilgrims and the Native Americans "gave thanks" 
		by celebrating the good harvest together.

		We still eat the same foods on Thanksgiving - 
		roast turkey with stuffing, cranberry sauce, and
		for dessert, pumpkin pie.

		And there is no better place to find people 
		getting ready for this holiday than at the 
		grocery store. We talked with some people here 
		about their plans for Thanksgiving. How do you 
		usually celebrate Thanksgiving?
	
Karen: 		Well, it's been traditional in our house to have
		the family over at our house. We make a big 
		turkey dinner.

Polani: 	And who usually comes?

Karen: 		My husband's mother and father and his sister 
		and her husband and two children. And our two
		children. Sometimes we have friends. If we find
		out they're spending Thanksgiving alone, we will
		have friends come over and have dinner with us,
		although this year it's just going to be the
		family.

Polani: 	Do you ever eat turkey at other times of the 
		year?

Frank: 		Very rarely. Maybe, what, once?

Karen: 		Once or twice.

		*	*	*

Polani: 	What do you do for Thanksgiving?

Melissa: 	We usually invite my grandparents over and my
		brothers and their families and my aunt, and 
		it's me and my sister, along with my two older 
		brothers and my parents.

Polani: 	And what do you usually eat?

Melissa: 	My grandma usually brings a Mexican dish, 
		because she's Mexican. Then my mom has all the 
		traditional stuff: turkey and mashed potatoes 
		and dressing, corn, pumpkin pie . . . all that 
		stuff.

Polani: 	What does your grandmother bring?

Melissa: 	She'll bring sopa, which is a rice. It's rice in 
		like a tomato paste garlic-type sauce, and it's, 
		you can put carrots and peas and corn in it, 
		and she usually makes it with onions in it, too.

		*	*	*

Polani: 	Who do you usually invite for Thanksgiving?

Marjorie: 	My immediate family - it's my husband and my two
		sons.

Polani: 	And what are you planning to serve?

Marjorie: 	I usually prepare turkey, of course, dressing, 
		which is the stuffing. I usually have potato 
		salad, green beans. I usually have like a 
		dessert, maybe sweet potato pie or apple pie.

		*	*	*

Polani: 	What kinds of foods are you planning to serve 
		for Thanksgiving dinner?

Rosalind: 	Oh, we're planning on having a turkey, ham, 
		stuffing, greens. I don't know if you know about
		greens.

Polani: 	No. Tell us about greens.

Rosalind: 	Greens is sort of a tradition from the South. 
		And I'm originally from Louisiana, so we eat 
		greens.

Polani: 	Are there any other southern dishes you plan to
		make for Thanksgiving dinner?

Rosalind: 	Well, we're going to try something new that I 
		haven't done in a while because I haven't been 
		in Louisiana, but I'm going to make something 
		called dirty rice.

Polani: 	Dirty rice? What's in it besides rice?

Rosalind: 	Well, it's mostly ground beef. And it's mixed 
		with rice, so it's called dirty rice.

Polani: 	Well, that sounds interesting. Now, you said you
		were having turkey. Do you eat turkey at any 
		other time of the year?

Rosalind: 	No, only at Thanksgiving and Christmas.
	
		*	*	*

Polani: 	Does your family prepare any unusual dishes for
		Thanksgiving?

Nicole: 	My great-grandma was from Italy, and when she 
		was alive, we always had a side dish of pasta.

Polani: 	Oh, OK. And now?

Nicole: 	We just have the traditional Thanksgiving dinner
		now.

		*	*	*

Polani: 	Well, it looks as if everyone's having plenty of 
		good things to eat. The main meal here is 
		finished, but we haven't had dessert yet. Some 
		of the family are already doing dishes. Can I 
		help?

Family 
member 1: 	No, thanks, Polani. We're almost finished.

Polani: 	Oh, OK. Are we having dessert soon?

Family 
member 2: 	As soon as the dishes are finished.

Polani: 	OK. Well, back in the grocery store, we also 
		asked some people to tell us what they do 
		after dinner.

		*	*	*

Frank: 		We very much like to watch the football games. 
		And then we usually wait until later to have 
		the dessert.

Mark: 		Well, we usually watch football . . . relax, 
		talk, and visit, and then, later on in the 
		evening, eat again.

Polani: 	Who does the dishes after dinner?

Mark: 		Everyone usually likes to try and help my mom 
		and dad because of all the work it took to 
		prepare the dinner.

Frank: 		Unlike a lot of the things that you hear in our 
		household, the men do help with the cleanup of 
		the Thanksgiving dishes.

		*	*	*

Polani: 	Thanksgiving has a serious side, too. We asked
		people what it means to them.

Mark: 		A time to give thanks for everything that we 
		have.

Karen: 		For me it's a day to be with my family, to give 
		thanks for things that have happened during the
		year.

Boy: 		I think it means to me that the Pilgrims and the
		Indians were very nice to each other.

Polani: 	And that's why I'm here tonight enjoying this 
		great meal.

Jennifer: 	Would you like a piece of pie?

Polani: 	Oh, well, thanks, Jennifer. I guess I have 
		enough room for just one piece. Mmm-hmm . . . 
		pumpkin pie - one of my favorite Thanksgiving 
		traditions. This is Polani Pozzani wishing you 
		a very Happy Thanksgiving. Thanks for joining us.


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005
