Unit 9	A short history of transportation

Experts talk about the history - and the future - of 
transportation.

Mike: 		Getting from one city to another means taking a
		plane, a bus, train, or for many people,
		driving a car. People in the United States love
		their cars - even if they have to put up with
		traffic like this.

		Many families have two or more cars. The
		history of the United States is in part a
		history of changes in transportation: first,
		the building of railroads across the country;
		then, the building of giant freeways; and
		finally, the development of other forms of
		transportation such as airplanes.

		I'm Mike Sullivan, and today we're going to
		look at some of these forms of transportation
		and how they've changed in the last one hundred
		years.

		From the time of the invention of the wheel, 
		people all over the world have searched for
		faster and better ways to travel. But it wasn't
		until about a hundred years ago that machines
		began to go faster than horses. By 1900, many
		steam-powered trains carried people at speeds
		of more than one hundred miles an hour. The
		first automobiles appeared on the streets, and
		a few brave inventors actually tried to fly.
	
		Eventually, these flying machines did get off
		the ground. But during the first half of the
		twentieth century, most long-distance travel
		was done on trains. Trains were fast,
		efficient, and could carry people almost
		anywhere they wanted to go.

		Still, as better cars and highways were built,
		most people wanted to ride by car. By 1990, 
		there were more than 200 million cars in the 
		United States and Canada. Of course, for a
		longer distance, flying by jet plane was much
		faster.

		People used to travel much more by train than 
		they do now, and now people are saying that
		more trains will solve many of our
		transportation problems. In countries like
		Japan, France, and Germany, modern high-speed
		trains provide fast, clean, and comfortable
		transportation for thousands of travelers every
		day. Between some European cities, more people
		now travel by high-speed train than by airplane
		or car.

		In addition to the advantages of speed and 
		comfort, trains can take you right to the city 
		center. If you take a train from the airport,
		you don't have to fight traffic for an hour or
		more to get to the city. In the United States,
		there are still no high-speed trains. But in a
		few years, trains like this Swedish train or
		this German inter-city express may connect
		Washington and New York.

		For longer trips, such as those from New York 
		to Los Angeles, Americans probably will
		continue to travel by plane. And some people
		say super jumbo jets like this one will carry
		as many as eight hundred people.

		Will we have high-speed trains, super jumbo
		jets? We talked to some experts who told us
		more about travel in the future.

Frank 
Snowden: 	In the future, I think more people will travel
		by high-speed train, like the Japanese Bullet
		Train. But they'll take the train only between
		cities that are about four hundred miles apart
		or less. When people have to go farther,
		they'll fly. It will still be faster to go by
		plane when the distance is five hundred miles
		or more. But when it's only a little less, four
		hundred miles, a train will be faster. At the
		moment, very few people in the United States
		travel by train.

Ellen 
Brown: 		What I see are improvements over what we have
		now. 

		I see bigger planes, better planes that can
		serve more people. Faster trains, better cars,
		smarter cars. But I don't really see a major
		new invention. There is another option, though,
		that people will have. We call it
		telecommuting. People won't go anywhere;
		they'll stay at home. They'll have a computer,
		a fax machine, a telephone, and they'll do
		their work from home. They'll never have to go
		out or worry about getting to work.
	
Larry 
Menzel: 	I think we'll have something called a "Personal
		Rapid Transit System." People will travel in
		cars that run on tracks like a train. These
		cars will hold one to three people, and they'll
		travel nonstop to their destination. Imagine
		your own private train that never gets caught
		in traffic. That's what Personal Rapid Transit
		will be.

Mike: 		Transportation certainly has come a long way. 
		And as we just heard, the future should bring 
		just as many new surprises. I'm Mike Sullivan.
		Happy traveling!


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005