Unit 13	Street performers

People give their opinions of performances at a street market in
Seattle, Washington.

Neil: 		What do you think a magician, a juggler, and a 
		saxophonist have in common? Well, they're all
		here in Seattle, Washington, performing on the
		street. Hi. I'm Neil Murray, and I'm standing in
		historic Pike Place Market in downtown Seattle.
		Thousands of visitors come here to shop and
		watch the performers. Today we're going to watch
		some of them perform, and then we're going to
		find out what people think of them.

		*	*	*

Neil: 		What did you think of the performance?

Man 1: 		I thought it was very good. It was soothing. It
		was entertaining. It was professional.

Man 2: 		I was surprised at how good he was. I didn't 
		expect a person on the street to just pick up a
		saxophone and play that well. So I was surprised
		by that.

Woman 1: 	He was really good. It's hard to do that by
		yourself with no other background music or
		anything and make it sound really good. And he 
		did a good job.

		*	*	*

Magician: 	Let me show you what I mean. This is a strange
		object I picked up in a Seattle magic shop. Now
		when I first saw this thing, I asked the guy
		behind the counter, "What the heck is that?" He
		said, "Well, watch this, Amazing William. The
		red pom-pom is attached to the yellow pom-pom by
		the long string over here, and over here the
		green pom-pom is attached to the white pom-pom
		by the short string." I said, "Is that all?" He
		said, "No, because as you can see, the yellow
		pom-pom is also attached to the white one by the
		long string." I said, "Now wait a minute. How
		can the red one be attached to the yellow one
		when the yellow one is already attached to the
		white one?" He said, "Follow me on this, Amazing
		William. The red one is also attached to the
		white one, which is therefore attached by the
		long string to the yellow one, therefore also
		the white. Therefore, the red one, being
		attached by the long string to the yellow and
		the white . . ." I said, "Hold it!" I said,
		"That is absolutely incredible, and my audiences
		will applaud for that." Then the guy behind the
		counter said, "Now here's how it works, Amazing
		William. It's really very simple. It's magic."

Neil: 		What did you think of the magician's act?

Woman 2: 	He was fantastic.

Woman 3: 	I found myself listening to him and not paying
		as much attention to what he was doing, instead
		of listening to him, but he was good.

Man 1: 		Magic show was probably my least favorite, only
		because I don't know a thing about it. But I
		like the music.

Neil: 		Hi. What did you think of the performance?

Woman 4: 	Very nice. It's a nice added atmosphere to the
		Pike Street Market.

Woman 5: 	It takes a lot to be able to play in this kind
		of setting because people just walk by. I mean,
		you have to be really good in order to make
		people stop and listen to you and appreciate
		what you're doing here.

Man 3: 		It's very relaxing music, and I enjoy it at
		home, too, so . . . It's nice just to hear it
		here on the street.

Woman 6: 	It's a little change from the usual street music
		you hear.

		*	*	*

Neil: 		What did you think of the performance?

Woman 7: 	I was kind of disappointed. I thought maybe he'd
		be more talented. I think that he needs some
		practice.

Neil: 		What did you think?

Woman 8: 	I thought he was silly.

Man 4: 		The juggler is entertaining for the small
		children.

Man 5: 		Oh, I wasn't disappointed. I wasn't elated
		either. I was just, you know, just something you
		expect to see down here in Pike's Market.

		*	*	*

Neil: 		You know, I've always wanted to be a street
		entertainer. Let's give it a try.

		*	*	*

Neil: 		Hope you've enjoyed all of the street acts. This
		is Neil Murray, performing on the streets of
		Seattle, Washington.


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005