Unit 15	How embarrassing!

People talk about what they would do in embarrassing situations 
with guests.

Reporter: 	In the United States and Canada, as in many 
		other countries, people like to invite guests 
		to their homes. Sooner or later, almost everyone 
		has a story to tell about a problem with a guest.
		We're going to look at several difficult
		situations involving guests. Then we're going to
		talk to some people to find out what they would
		do in these situations. Let's take a look at our
		first example.

Guest 1: 	I was invited to a party, and I arrived a half
		hour early. I thought it would take me longer to
		get there. Well, the host came to the door
		wearing old clothes and holding a vacuum
		cleaner. I could hear a shower running in the
		background, and on top of that, not a single
		guest was there.

Reporter: 	What should the guest have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Let's find out what some of the people we talked
		with would have done.

Man 1: 		I would have pretended to have an errand to run
		in the neighborhood, like going to the drugstore
		or going to the grocery store. And then I would
		have told the host I'd come back later.

Woman 1: 	If I were the guest, I would have apologized and
		then offered to help with things like setting
		the table and vacuuming.

Reporter: 	You wouldn't have left?

Woman 1: 	No, I don't think so.

Reporter: 	What would you have done?

Woman 2: 	Well, I guess I would have apologized and left
		quickly and told her I'd be back later.

Reporter: 	Well, what would you have done if you were the
		host?

Woman 2: 	I'm not sure. I guess I would have asked the
		guest if he could come back a little later.

Man 1: 		I would have invited him in anyway and told him
		to make himself at home. Then I would have
		finished my chores and changed clothes.

Woman 1: 	Oh, I think I would have asked him to help with
		something in the kitchen, or maybe he could
		finish the vacuuming.

Reporter: 	What would you have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Now let's take a look at another situation.

Host 1: 	I invited my boss to dinner the other night. She
		was having a great time and wouldn't leave. By
		midnight, my husband and I were so exhausted.
		Finally, my husband fell asleep at the table. My
		boss was very embarrassed when she realized it
		was so late. I just never know what to do when a
		guest won't go home.

Reporter: 	What should the host have done? 

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Let's get some opinions.

Man 2: 		Boss or no boss, I think I'd have reminded her
		how late it was.

Woman 3: 	I'm not sure, but I think I might have lied and
		I told her I had to get up early in the morning.
		Then I would have thought of some reason.

Woman 4: 	I wouldn't have done anything except pretend I
		wasn't tired. After all, if it is your 
		boss . . . !

Man 3: 		Personally, I think you need to let people know
		how you feel. Some people just need to be told.
		She should have told her boss that it was late
		and that she and her husband were tired. Most
		people would understand.

Reporter: 	Those were some good answers. How about you?
		What would you have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Now let's take a look at our third situation.

Host 2: 	A friend of mine came to stay with me for the
		holidays. Unfortunately, she dropped a lamp of
		mine and broke it. I think she thought it was an
		old lamp and not worth much, but that lamp had
		belonged to my grandmother. And it was worth a
		lot to me. What should I have done?

Reporter: 	What should the host have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Let's see what the people we talked with had to
		say.

Man 1: 		I think I would have told them how much the lamp
		really meant to me. And I would have dropped a
		hint about the cost of antiques. And I think, I
		really think that a good friend would have
		offered to pay something.

Woman 1: 	I'm sure the friend felt terrible already. The
		woman could have told her that the lamp was
		really old and she planned to buy a new one
		anyway. That way, nobody would be embarrassed.

Reporter: 	What should the guest have done?

		*	*	*

Woman 3: 	Well, I've thought about that situation a lot
		because I had a similar experience. I
		accidentally broke a special antique teacup that
		belonged to a friend of mine. Of course, I
		apologized, but I felt terrible. So I replaced
		the cup with one that my grandmother had given
		me. I think my grandmother would have approved.

Reporter: 	What would you have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	And now, our last situation.

Guest 2: 	After graduation, a friend of mine from college
		invited me to come and visit him for the
		weekend. When I arrived at his house, the place
		was a mess. There were piles of dirty dishes and
		trash everywhere. It looked as if the place
		hadn't been cleaned in ages. It really bothered
		me, but I didn't want to offend him. I didn't
		know what to do.

Reporter: 	What should the guest have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Let's find out what people had to say.

Man 3: 		Well, that's kind of a touchy situation. But I
		think I would have said something like, "It
		looks as if you've been really busy." Then I
		would have offered to help clean up.

Woman 2: 	I think I would have told him I misunderstood
		his invitation and I'd already checked into a
		motel. I think that would be the best way to
		handle the situation.

Woman 4: 	I think I would have accepted the situation and
		stayed with my friend. After all, it was just
		for the weekend.

Reporter: 	What would you have done?

		*	*	*

Reporter: 	Well, we've heard a number of practical
		solutions to some difficult guest situations.
		Now you should be ready for your next guest.


Copyright (c) Cambridge University Press 2005